---
title: "Exposure fusion by Merten et al."
date: 2020-7-1 12:32:28 -0400
categories: OpenCV
tags:
  -openCV 
  -exposure fusion
use_math: true
---

In highly dynamic scenes, 
Pictures often are over- and under-exposed to the light. 

Bracketed exposure sequence -> a single high dynamic range image 
-> remapped into a single low dynamic range image 

This paper proposed to skip the step of computing HDR image, and immediately fuse the multiple exposure into a high-quality, LDR image for display, which is called exposure fusion

This approach relies on simple quality measures like saturation and contrast, which has  been proved to be very effective. 

Pyramidal image decomposition is the essential technique. 


HDR image processing 
Import LDR images generated from normal camera, which is then converted to HDR 
Camera-specific response function, used to linearize the intensities of pixels. 
To display the acquired HDR images on normal display device, the HDR needs to be compressed by tone mapping. 
Bilateral filtering: widely used technique to compress DR  

Other methods
Pyramidal image decomposition [15]
Rescaling HDR pixel values by multi-scaled contrast 

This paper’s approach: weighted blending 
fuse high quality images from bracketed exposures
Employed pyramid decomposition for weighted blending
The goal is to obtain desired image by keeping the best parts
















Quality Measures 

Contrast: apply a Laplacian filter to the grayscale version of each image, and take the absolute value of the filter response, which will yield a simple indicator C for contrast.  by which edges and texture will have highly weights.
Saturation S: longer exposed image -> color desaturated and eventually clipped  S is computed as a STD within R,G,and B channel at each pixel 
Well-exposedness (E): pixel’s intensity is near 0 for underexposed and 1 for overexposed. By applying Gaussian curve, the intensity is kept to be about 0.5

---
$$
W_{ij,k} = \left(C_{ij,k}\right)^{\omega_C}\times\left(S_{ij,k}\right)^{\omega_S}\times\left(E_{ij,k}\right)^{\omega_E}
$$
---

Fusion 

Weight map also needs to be smoothed by Gaussian filter to avoid sharp transitions 
Cross-bilateral filter is a better alternative 

Laplacian pyramid decomposition 
multiresolution blending based on image pyramids 
Gradient-based blending shown to be effective 


What is color saturation?  Color saturation refers to the intensity of color in an image. As the saturation increases, the colors appear to be more pure, while as the saturation decreases, the colors appear to be more washed-out or pale. 

Image compression 
(lossy and lossless image compression)

Pyramid decomposition  : multi-scale signal representation developed by computer vision, image processing, and signal processing communities, in which a signal or an image  is subject to repeated smoothing and subsampling. 
Gaussian pyramid 
Laplacian pyramid 
Steerable pyramid 
